Character sets

Computers, well, can only hold numbers, right?

They can only store numbers, they can only work with numbers.

But we as humans, we deal with text a lot.

We want to type, we want to write, we want to read.

So what should we do in this case?

So what we need is a system of mapping between characters and numbers.

And this is exactly what a character set is.

It's just a system of mapping these two together.

So it defines a whole list of all the letters and symbols.

Well they're just characters.

It defines all these things.

And also it assigns a number to each one of these characters.

So if I assign character u, maybe some number, maybe number 400, if I now save 400 in my memory.

Well, as a binary of course, I now know that that 400 means character U.

Okay, so we have this whole system to help us be able to deal with characters, be able to deal with string inside of our computers.

Now, two of the most very common character sets that we use are Unicode and Ascii.

Unicode is vast. it has more than 149813 characters.
Unicode is just a standard, okay?

It's not an application.

It's not something that you install on your computer.

It's just some standards that everyone around the world have helped to build.

Language experts are contributing to it.

People from all around the world are contributing to this Unicode standard, so that now we have something

we have a whole standard of knowing how to represent characters in computers.

And we could do that now with all the other languages Chinese, Greek, Japanese, some languages that

we have probably never heard about.

So we now have a way of representing all these numbers and characters inside of our computers, but, well, it's just a standard.

So we've got something else that is built on top of the standards, and it's something that we install

in our computer, and that's character encodings and that's coming up next.

But it's important to know that character sets well, there are just standards.

So again, a character set such as Unicode defines all these characters and then the numbers.

And one example is that character S has this number in Unicode.

So 115 is a number that is assigned to character s and actually lowercase s okay.

Now, apart from Unicode, we've got another very common character set in computers, and that's called

the Ascii Character set or ASC II now Ascii characters.

This stands for American.

So this is for English language only.

It only defines 128 characters.

Now Ascii is really commonly used in computers.

A lot of things that you'll see only have Ascii only deal with Ascii.

But Ascii is just for the English language.

And Ascii is the subset of Unicode.

Encoders and Decoders::
Encoders ---
Encoder in general gets something meaningful to us humans and it turns that into some zeros and ones. Okay.

So an image encoder will take an image.

For example, if you pull up your phone and you take an image, it will take that image and it will

convert that image into some zeros and ones, so that now we can save that image in our memory, we

can now save that image, maybe on our disk or something.

We can now send it through our network card to somewhere else.

Decoders --- 

So a decoder, an image decoder will take those zeros and ones, and it will now know how to display

that image.

So it knows now that at this pixel at this location it should display this color code, the other pixel,

this color code and so forth.

Same for a video decoder, same for a PDF decoder and all these other decoders that we have.

So the general concept of decoders and encoders decoder just takes some zeros and ones and it turns

it into something meaningful to humans.

Character encodings --- 
Now character encodings as the name suggests, it's exact same concept.

They take some zeros and ones.

But now the meaningful thing that they turn those zeros and ones into, well, are just characters.

So definition of a character encoding is a system of assigning a sequence of bytes.

Again remember sequence of bytes.

It's just some zeros and ones to a character.

And that's it.

That's what a character encoding is.

And it's something built in into the core of your operating system.

It's not an abstract idea like the Unicode.

It's something built in and you can use this.

All the operating systems come with a built in encoding in place.

And if an operating system doesn't have a character encoding, then it means that you can't deal with text at all.

Now, the most common character encoding that we have right now is the UTF eight character encoding.

And it is defined by the Unicode standard, which means that UTF eight uses the exact same numbers as Unicode.