So let's first try to talk about this binary data.

So what exactly is binary data.

Well it's data that its units consist of two possible states and only 2A0 and a one, or on or off.

So binary means two.

And if I say that I have a binary data, it means that I have a data that consists of only two things

a zero and a one.

And well, everything that you have on your computer and everything you see on your computer is a binary

data.

Computers only understand binary data.

All of your files, applications, network requests, your whole operating system.

And we have many different ways to represent these zeros and ones.

For example, CPUs use transistors, Apple and one has 16 billion transistors.

And each one of these transistors could represent an off switch or a zero or an on switch or a one.

Now, transistors are a new technology.

Back in the day when computers first came out, it was literally just a light bulb.

So,
We're going to see these zeros and ones, and we're going to deal with them.

things are just zeros and ones, we can now answer that question that why buffers are so important.

Now buffers are here.

And note to help us deal with these zeros and ones.

Buffers are the thing that connect NodeJS to all these zeros and ones, so that now we can deal with

files so that now we can deal with network requests.

Now we can send a request to another process.

Maybe now we can communicate with other processes.

And now we have a huge amount of power.

Now that we can work with these zeros and ones without buffers, we have no way to deal with these zeros

and ones.

So Node.js is a system language.

It's meant to be used in server side to create network applications.

So if you don't have a way to deal with zeros and ones, then how in the world are you going to create

a file?

Or how in the world are you going to read a network request?

Or how in the world are you going to connect to a database and exchange some data?

So this is why we have buffers to connect our technology, which is this node, to this whole world

of zeros and ones, to give us access to this low level thing.