Now the first layer, the most basic layer is the physical layer.

Now here we're talking about cables.

And the way that information is moved here is using bits.

All right.

So you have a cable like an Ethernet cable that comes with RJ 45 connectors.

And that's the most common form of a networking cable that you can buy right now.

And you can use to connect your laptop to a router and so on.

So this is the most basic layer of the whole networking concepts.

Now on top of this layer.

Now this layer again just cares about zeros and ones and how to move them across.

It has no idea about data.

It has no idea what is an IP address.

What is a mac address?

Nothing.

It just gets some zeros and ones and it moves them across.

Now, this is of course, really useless on its own for us, because what can you do with those arisen ones?

I mean, you were just getting some zeros and ones.

You have no idea where those are coming from, which machine is sending them and also what that data is representing.

So on top of physical layer we have something called a data link layer.

Now this is where all the switches will come into play.

And this part moves data and frames.

So in data link we have switches.

And these switches will receive those zeros and ones.

And they will combine them into this whole frame thing.

So they will extract the Mac address the data, the destination Mac address, the source Mac address.

And they will create this kind of neat concept, neat thing called a frame.

And then they will figure out which machine has that destination Mac address and send that frame across to that machine.

And when it's sending it again, it's sending it using the physical layer.

So it sends those zeros and ones using the physical layer using the cable.

That machine will receive those zeros and ones.

And the network card on that machine will transfer those into again a frame.

Now on top of the data link layer we have the network layer.

And this is where we have packets.

Now this is where routers will come into play and IP addresses.

And this is a very important part because without this in place we cannot have a concept like internet or a huge networks because well a switch could only handle so many.

If you want to go crazy and have hundreds of computers, some of them might be in one building, another one in another building, another one in another city.

You will have a lot of routing to do, you know.

So that is where the network layer will come into play.

And here it uses packets and it also uses IP addresses.

Now on top of the network layer.

Because again the network layer on itself is kind of useless.

I mean yeah it's very important part.

I mean you could get a packet and you could get some zeros and ones and you will now know how to route it.

So you know which machine send that and you know the destination that it should go.

For example, we might send some data from San Francisco over to Toronto.

There's a huge distance between these two.

But the network layer, all those routers in between, know how to route that traffic.

So they know which router now to choose to route that traffic to.

And that router will now determine which other routers to choose.

And they do that based on IP addresses.

Now on top of this we have something called transport layer.

And here when information is moving in this layer we say we usually call them segments.

Now transport layer makes sure that those packets that you're sending it gets across safely.

And if maybe one of them gets lost, which is actually pretty common, it will maybe resend or retransmit that packet, right?

So it will figure out that the packet was lost.

So it will tell the destination actually the source to send it again, and then it will receive it.

So it's all about moving the data and connection.

Now on top of this, now that we have a way to move data to transport data and make sure that we are receiving the exact bits that were sent.

Now we have this big layer which is called application layer.

Now in this layer, when we say the data is moving in this layer, we just say data.

So this is where we really care about in NodeJS.

So now this is where we set up our Http applications where we set up maybe an email server application, an FTP server SSH and many, many other things.

So now that we have a way of communication.

So now that we know how to transport data safely, we could now set up something to kind of make sense

out of those data that get sent across.

So these are the layers of networking.