Now assume we have a company with 4 peoples that is one network. and this network is connected together via switch.

Like our network we have so many network groups are there in this world. so how can these network groups talk together?

We can imagine that it will be really unpractical to try to use switches and connect millions of cables together.

It's really, really messy.

You can't have just one switch or maybe multiple switches, but connect all these computers to those.

It's just not possible.

So when we install the routers on top of the switches this is going to be pretty interesting.

So now we could connect these routers together also using some cables just like before.

And now what happens is that a computer from one network group could talk to a computer from another network.

So the way that routers work is instead of Mac addresses they now work with IP addresses.

Well they're running on top of the switch.

So they still understand Mac addresses.

But now they mainly work with IP addresses.

Now, basically, an IP address is a unique address assigned to a specific device.

And it's unique, just like, you know, Mac addresses.

So each computer right now and each router will have a unique IP address associated with it.

So just like what you see now this router, its job is to assign IP addresses to all the computers that are connected to it.

So we'll automatically assign IP addresses to all these computers connected to it.

And it will also route data.

So it could route data from this network to the other network.

So that's basically what routers do.

Now think of an IP address like your address your home address.

So you might want to send a package from your home to another person.

Maybe they could be in the same city as you are or they could be in another country.

The thing is that you have a unique address assigned to yourself, to your home, and that's unique.

Each computer, each device has a unique IP address assigned to it.

Now, in this case, the first two portions of an IP address will act kind of like the city.

now we set up something that every single computer right now could talk to each

other.

So this computer right here could now specify the IP address of this computer or maybe this computer.

And they could now talk to each other.

They could now send bits to each other.

And if you can send bits, if we can send zeros and ones, you can actually send anything you want.

You can send a huge file.

You could send video file applications.

It doesn't matter.

So this is what the internet really is.