So when you create a new bash process or a new set sh process, what really happens?

What happens before the bash starts to run your first commands?

And after we understand this, we'll be able to realize why exactly we were not able to run the shell commands and the exact function.

And also, what can we do to keep our functions and changes to variables maybe permanent and all of our following shells?

When you start a shell we've got different types of shells.

So in bash or in zsh a shell could either be log in or non log in.

There's still bash or zsh. They still work in the exact same way.

So a log in shell will run some configuration files that a non log in shell typically don't.

So that's the only difference.

Think of this log in shell as running some more commands.

And this non log in as not running as much commands.

Now another two things that a shell could be.

A shell could either be interactive or non interactive okay.

So if a shell is interactive well as the name suggests you can interact with it.

You have a command prompt.

You type in your command.

You hit enter and then you enter your next command and so on and so forth.

But if your shell is not interactive, you are not interacting with the shell.

You just say bash and then you specify your file and then it's going to run it.

And while it's doing its job, while it's running the instructions, you cannot interact with it.

So in a non interactive shell you don't have a command prompt.

It's not that you put a command and then you put the next one.

You just run your whole script file and that's it.

Types:
    Login or Non-Login
    Interactive or Non-interactive

So every time you create a shell it could be either one of these okay.

So we could have any combination of them.

So a shell could be log in and non-reactive or log in and interactive or non log in and interactive and non log in and non interactive.

1. Login shell
    It going run the below files
        I. /etc/profile
        II. ~/.bash_profile (if not found) -> ~/.bash_login (if not found) -> ~/.profile

        After bash runs the above it going to run
        III. ~/.bashrc

        RC stands for run commands okay.

2. Non-login & interactive shell
    It going to run ~/.bashrc